Ser Waymar Royce and Will, members of the Night's Watch, are killed beyond the Wall.
Bran Stark discovers a litter of direwolf pups after the execution of a deserter from the Night's Watch.
Catelyn Stark receives news of Jon Arryn's death and that King Robert is en route to Winterfell.
King Robert Baratheon arrives at Winterfell to ask Eddard Stark to become the Hand of the King.
Eddard Stark decides to accept King Robert's offer to become Hand of the King.
Bran Stark is pushed from a tower by Jaime Lannister, resulting in serious injury, after witnessing Jaime and Cersei Lannister's incestuous relationship.
Eddard Stark depart Winterfell, Jon heading to the Wall and Ned to King's Landing.
An assassin attempts to kill Bran Stark in his bed, but is thwarted by Catelyn Stark and Bran's direwolf, Summer.
Catelyn Stark decides to travel secretly to King's Landing to investigate the attempt on Bran's life.
At the Ruby Ford, Arya Stark's direwolf, Nymeria, attacks Prince Joffrey Baratheon after he threatens Arya.
In Darry, Lord Eddard Stark orders the execution of Sansa's direwolf, Lady, as a consequence of the incident at the Ruby Ford.
Bran Stark awakens from his coma with no memory of his fall but discovers he has lost the use of his legs.
Catelyn Stark arrives in King's Landing and is secretly taken to meet Petyr Baelish, who suggests the Lannisters are behind the attempt on Bran's life.
Eddard Stark arrives in King's Landing to assume his duties as Hand of the King.
After discovering the truth about Cersei's children, Eddard Stark confronts Cersei Lannister and resigns as Hand of the King.
Jaime Lannister and his men ambush Eddard Stark and his men in the streets of King's Landing, resulting in Ned's injury and the death of his men.
After King Robert Baratheon dies from injuries sustained during a boar hunt, Eddard Stark is betrayed and arrested for treason.
During the chaos following King Robert's death, Arya Stark's fencing instructor, Syrio Forel, is killed as he defends her from Lannister guards, allowing Arya to escape.
Robb Stark gathers the Northern bannermen and marches from Winterfell to war in response to his father's capture.
Sansa Stark pleads for her father's life before King Joffrey Baratheon.
Catelyn Stark reunites with her son Robb's army at Moat Cailin, strategizing their next moves in the war
The Battle of the Whispering Wood: Robb Stark captures Jaime Lannister.
In King's Landing, Arya Stark witnesses her father's public execution after King Joffrey reneges on his promise of mercy.